+++
title = "A Day in Life"
date = "2023-05-29T21:26:25+08:00"
author = "Tyler"
authorTwitter = "" #do not include @
cover = ""
tags = ["ramble"]
categories = ["life"]
keywords = ["", ""]
description = "How to (kind of) mess up a Microsoft interview and save it."
showFullContent = false
readingTime = true
hideComments = false
color = "" #color from the theme settings
+++
I think that fortune and misfortune are always balanced in life. With each occurrence of an unfortunate event, there's bound to be something lucky happening soon. And this is sort of what happened today. As much as today's event traumatized me, I find it funny (educational, even.) So, I decided to post it. (After all, this is what blogs are for, right?)

---

### THE BIRDSTRIKE
This afternoon I was doing my orienteering assignment in the park. As I rode my bike past the trees, a sudden wind brought **a chunk of bird droppings** hit me right on my sleeve.

As any hygienic person would do, I biked back to the public restroom, rushed into the accessible toilet, and took my shirt off. What I didn't realize at the time was that I was wearing a T-shirt, and the bird droppings were dangerously close to the cuff. So, as I took my shirt off, the bird droppings moved and **smudged onto my forearm**.

I let out the loudest gag you'll ever hear in a public restroom.

As I frantically rushed to the sink to try and wash two things at once (my shirt and now my forearm), my phone started vibrating in my pocket. In fear of it being some family emergency, I took out my phone (with my clean hand) and realized it was an unknown number.

---

### THE START OF AN UNFORTUNATE EVENT
"Huh, this is even weirder," I thought to myself. People seldom call me nowadays. Usually, if it's an unknown number, the spam call warning would show up, and it almost always is a scam call. Not this time, though. Nothing indicated that the call was a scam call, just a bunch of unknown numbers staring back at me.

So I picked up.

And that was the first mistake I made today. That call was from an interviewer from Microsoft. 

> *"Hello? This is Microsoft speaking. Are you available for an interview right now?"*

Usually, a sane person with bird droppings on both their arm and their shirt would say no. But in a wave of pure panic, I thought, how hard could it be? It's just bird droppings. I only need to go to the sink, open the faucet, let the water run for a bit, and wash it while I talk. That seems alright to me...?

Boy was I wrong about that.

And that was the second mistake I made today. I cannot, in fact, let the water run for a bit. It was an automatic faucet. The kind that you'd have to keep your hand under for it to work. If you've ever used one of those faucets, you'd know that it is almost impossible to keep it running. Even with your hand directly under it, it seemed so sensitive that as soon as your hand moved an inch, it would shut off. So I had to get my left arm under the sink (as I still had droppings on my arm to clean) and my right hand to squeeze as much handwash as possible. 

Either by pure happenstance or an intricate plan schemed by higher powers, my AirPods died at that exact moment. So there I was, with both hands occupied and no way to talk to the interviewer. In retrospect, the number of things that went wrong was hilarious, but at the moment I sure didn't think it was funny. I contemplated changing my mind and telling them that I was not actually free at the moment. But wouldn't it be weird to do so? Plus, I've never been the one to back down from challenges, it seemed like the only option was to get my hands clean and pick up the phone. 

---

### THE INTERVIEW
Just like what everyone said, the first phone interview would be simple. It lasts about five to ten minutes, and the questions range from simple self-introductions to inquiries about your resume. At first, the interviewer asks you to do a **self-introduction** for about one minute. And there was my third mistake.

> "I'm an Aries." - Tyler (2023)

I don't know if mentioning one's zodiac sign is a good idea. I think in my case it probably wasn't. I wanted to say that I am an enthusiastic person about my hobbies, and coding happened to be my aspiration and interest. Therefore, I have a lot of motivation to strive for the better. I said none of those things. To compensate for my mistake so early on in the interview, I started talking about the professional aspect of myself, how I am organized and I love doing hobby projects for me during my free time. I guess it turned out alright. Now, I hope that my English skills are good enough to make up for the mistakes I made during the interview.

The second part of the interview is about your previous work experience and what you've learned. I go through my past experiences and what I learned from them smoothly... until I get a phone call and **accidentally hang up on both of them**. 

WHO DOES THAT IN AN INTERVIEW? 

Afterward, my friend would scold me for it, saying that it made no sense for me to do that because if I were in an in-person interview, these kinds of things wouldn't be able to happen. And he would be right about it. It's a mistake that probably should've never happened, and I hope that considering my circumstances, it wouldn't be such a bad thing. (Dear Microsoft, I promise I am a lot brighter than this interview, please give me a chance.)

The third and last part of the interview is about your experiences with different programming languages and some applications of those languages. At this point, I was panicking to the brink of breaking down, but I wanted the job, so I tried my best to stay calm. In addition, my shirt is finally clean enough for me to put it back on, so it eased my mind a little. I went through my projects and named C and Rust two of my most familiar languages. After that, the interviewer ended the interview by saying that they'll be in touch, and I got out of the bathroom with regrets and a soaked shirt.

---

### THE REFLECTION
I think that the most valuable lesson I learned today is that decision-making is especially important during a panic. The art of making a rational decision even if you're panicking on the inside is important. To understand your limits and make decisions accordingly, so that you wouldn't embarrass yourself as much as I did.

I also thought about ways I could save the interview, perhaps by starting with ignoring all calls, even if it's an emergency. I don't know how it looked from the interviewer's perspective, but if you're the interviewer and you're reading this, I'm sincerely sorry for the trouble I caused. (Disconnecting the call for a whole minute.)

Anyhow, I would say that I did my best considering the dire situation I was in (I just got attacked by a random bird.) And I hope that none of you have to go through what I did in an interview.
